Documentation how to sign a LND/LNCLI release by a developer (#9103)
lightningnetwork/lnd: docs/signing_release_candidate.md

# Signing a LND release candidate

When a new version of LND is released, binaries for the lnd and lncli programs
are provided for various platforms and CPU architectures. The hashes of all
these binaries are written into a file known as the "Manifest". This Manifest is

> then signed by at least five trusted LND contributors (see `[verify-install.sh](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/master/scripts/verify-install.sh)`

Reviewer: nit: can just use a relative link: `../scripts/verify-install.sh`, goes for all links in the doc.

script for more details), ensuring that users can trust the binaries they 

> download, knowing they haven't been tampered with or backdoored.

Reviewer: I would be careful with "promises" here. Maybe we should just say "knowing they haven't been modified during the automated build process"?

To verify a release binary, users have two options:

* Manual Verification: Users can manually download the signature files and 
Manifest from GitHub LND release page, then verify the PGP signatures and 
hashes.

* Automated Verification: The LND repository provides a script, 
`[verify-install.sh](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/master/scripts/verify-install.sh)`, that automates the verification process. This script uses a
set of trusted developer keys (located in the repo under `[scripts/keys/](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/tree/master/scripts/keys)`) and
downloads the necessary data from the GitHub server to verify the integrity of
the local LND/LNCLI binaries.

> This process helps ensure that the release binaries are legitimate and secure.

Reviewer: Again, they just prove the code wasn't altered by the GitHub build. "Secure" is asserted by reviewing the code itself.

is in possession of the PGP key which will be added to the LND repo.
(See https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/8788 as an example).
It is important that the name of the PGP key equals the name in the
`verify-install` script. See also `scripts/keys/README.md` for more information.

## Signing a release binary package

If the new developer's PGP key has been successfully added to the LND repository,
through the aforementioned PR example, they are now able to provide their
signature for the new release's "Manifest" file. To do so, the developer must
follow these steps:

* Follow the build instructions at https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/master/docs/release.md#building-a-new-release.

* After a successful build, all binaries and Manifest files, will be placed
in a directory, named after the tag, created within the directory in which the build occurred. For 
instance, in the case mentioned above, the folder will be named 
`lnd-v0.18.3-beta`.
Ensure that the SHA-256 hashes, in your locally-generated Manifest file, match
those in the Manifest file of the official release on the LND GitHub repository.

> Only if all hashes are identical, should you sign the release.  If the digests

Reviewer: I always just do `diff lnd-v0.18.3-beta/manifest-v0.18.3-beta.txt ~/Downloads/manifest-v0.18.3-beta.txt`.

match, see the example signing comand, assuming your PGP signing key is
available on your local device:  
`gpg --local-user $KEYID  --detach-sig --output manifest-$USERNAME-v0.18.3-beta.sig manifest-v0.18.3-beta.txt`.  

> `KEYID` being the PGP key you added to the LND repo and `USERNAME` being the 

Reviewer: Can mention this is only necessary if you have multiple signing keys?

`make docker-release tag=v0.18.3-beta` (`tag=` specifies the version to build,
here its v0.18.3.beta). For mac users the docker build command might
fail see https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/issues/9093 for a potential
solution.

* After a successful build, all binaries, including the Manifest, will be placed
in a new folder created in the directory where you executed the command. For 
instance, in the case mentioned above, the folder will be named 
`lnd-v0.18.3-beta`.
Ensure that the SHA-256 hashes in your locally generated Manifest match those in
the Manifest file of the official release on the LND GitHub repository. Only if 
the hashes are identical should you proceed to sign the release using the 
following command, assuming your PGP signing key is available on your local 
device:
`gpg --local-user KEYID  --detach-sig --output manifest-USERNAME-v0.18.3-beta.sig manifest-v0.18.3-beta.txt`

KEYID being the PGP key you added to the LND repo and USERNAME being the name in
the `verify-install.sh` script and the name of your PGP key file. Be sure to
substitute the TAG value `v0.18.3-beta` with the version you are currently 
signing.

> * The last step is to upload the signature file
> (manifest-USERNAME-v0.18.3-beta.sig in the example) to the GitHub release page.
> You will need write permissions to modify the LND release. To avoid interfering
> with other signers who may be updating the GitHub release page, LND developers 
> use a `KeyBase` communication channel to signal when an edit is in progress. 
> Once your signature file is successfully uploaded, the signing process is 
> complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Finally, upload the signature file
(e.g. manifest-USERNAME-v0.18.3-beta.sig) to the GitHub release page.
Github write permissions are required to upload signatures to the LND release page.
To avoid interfering with other signers who may be updating the GitHub release page, LND developers use a `KeyBase` communication channel to signal when an edit is in progress. 
Once your signature file is successfully uploaded and the release page is unlocked, the
signing process is complete.
```

signature for the new release's "Manifest" file. To do so, the developer must
follow these steps:

* Follow the build instructions at https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/masterdocs/release.md#building-a-new-release.

* After a successful build, all binaries and Manifest files, will be placed
in a directory, named after the tag, created within the directory in which the build occurred. For 
instance, in the case mentioned above, the folder will be named 
`lnd-v0.18.3-beta`.
Ensure that the SHA-256 hashes, in your locally-generated Manifest file, match
those in the Manifest file of the official release on the LND GitHub repository.  
Tip: Download the official release Manifest file to your local maschine and do:  
`diff lnd-v0.18.3-beta/manifest-v0.18.3-beta.txt ~/Downloads/manifest-v0.18.3-beta.txt`
(example command for a release candidate called `v0.18.3-beta`)  
Only if all hashes are identical, should you sign the release.  If the digests
match, see the example signing comand, assuming your PGP signing key is
available on your local device:  
`gpg --local-user $KEYID  --detach-sig --output manifest-$USERNAME-v0.18.3-beta.sig manifest-v0.18.3-beta.txt`.  

> `KEYID` (only necessary if you have more than one PGP signing key on your 

Reviewer: nit: the whole argument (`--local-user $KEYID`) is only needed if there's more than one key.
